hello welcome back to recap central
today we'll be talking about a
psychological comedy drama film about a
man who discovers that his world is a tv
show well now let's get started on day
10 909 things start to take a turn for
truman
he greets his neighbors as he gets ready
for work wishing them all a good day
then an odd item comes hurtling out of
the sky and settles just next to his
automobile
truman stares at the sky above him when
he finishes a painting but he couldn't
find the cause of the strange bright
light that we can tell is a studio light
truman notices that the radio says a
plane flying over the island was losing
parts and he thinks the fragments he
found came from the airplane
truman when working hides paper scraps
he cuts out of a magazine and takes out
of his desk drawer before placing a call
to fiji's directory assistance to ask
for phone numbers
he wants to meet with lauren or sylvia
garland
like lawrence the boss approaches and
requests that he make a deal in the
harbor island area george hangs up on
his calls
truman reluctantly departs the pier but
ends up having to return owing to his
anxiety of being in open water
in his household truman spends time
tending to the garden when his wife
morel comes home with a cheery
disposition
afterward truman visits his longtime
friend marlon a fellow seahaven native
he knows from his childhood and confides
in him his plan to leave the town to
quit his job and to explore echoing his
desire as a child to discover the world
despite his teacher telling him that
there was nothing left to find
marlon pretends to be ignorant claiming
that he doesn't know where fiji is
despite having been that night truman
finds a place on the beach to sit in
stairs at the water for a long time
he remembers the father sun boat trip he
did with his dad and the time he
requested an extension of their time at
sea knowing that it would be their last
such adventure together he went back to
the dock against his father's wishes
following this a storm came and truman's
father was washed away in the rising
waves and drowned he walks out of the
memory and it begins to rain on him with
only him getting wet
his final discovery about the rain
prompts him to leap to his feet and go
back home
when she learns about his travel plans
merle reminds him that money is a
constraint
when he says having a baby can wait
until they have adventures she replies
with a question on whether a baby is
enough of an adventure and then she says
they should go to sleep
truman notices a homeless man on the
street while driving to work that
morning
when he studies the stranger more
attentively he sees that the man has a
face similar to his father's
despite the homeless man's attempt to
catch up to him several individuals and
weird barriers materialize and capture
the homeless man
later in the day truman calls his mother
over the phone to interrogate her about
the allegations
she rejects the notion believing it is
all fantasy when truman goes to his
basement he goes to a dusty old chest
that has a slew of his possessions in it
and starts rummaging through them
on the red sweater he finds a white pin
with how will it end written on it
when he reminisces he thinks about the
college band with marlon and their
college memories
when merle arrives truman becomes
occupied and loses sight of the gorgeous
young woman he had his eye on across the
courtyard
truman and merle get extremely close for
a month or so however their closeness is
broken when truman goes to the library
to study one evening
the woman in the courtyard who he'd been
checking out is standing in front of him
she tells him that she is forbidden to
speak with him which shocks him however
truman still invites her out even
knowing she's not interested
she hardly types out a note and hands it
to truman the tag reads now
they sneak out of the library without
being seen while they are in the room
cameras lose sight of them momentarily
but follow them to the exit where they
escape truman and lauren find a private
moment on the beach but lauren is
panicking when a car approaches
when her father emerges on the dunes
calling for her she tells truman her
real name is sylvia and tries to tell
him the truth about the program
after saying that she's delusional he
collects her and announces that they are
relocating to fiji
truman looks on mystified as they drive
away and never come back
truman discovers lauren slash read
sylvia's jumper which she forgotten the
newspaperman remerges with bits of
images torn from magazine pages
the shreds suggest truman has been
making a collage of the face of lauren
sylvia the woman he remembers the next
day when truman drives to work his radio
starts broadcasting his every move as if
it were observations from crew members
the crew members are only using the
radio to relay what truman is doing so
he can hear himself and thus have
something to report to keep the story
going
truman's rising paranoia causes him to
want to roam around outside
he hides inside a building after parking
when the elevator doors open he is
surprised to see a room full of people
with headphones and sandwiches rather
than an empty elevator car
this is because it's the break room for
the actors on his tv show
before he realizes what's going on he's
tackled by security and ejected from the
facility because he trespass on route to
a local store truman discovers marlon's
car parked in the lot
truman attempts to describe what he went
through to marlon but marlon considers
truman's explanation to be a joke
truman invites marlon to speak privately
where he confesses that he has something
to share that he'll be leaving for a
time upon returning home truman
discovers that merle and his mother are
studying old photographs together
he watches the tv play the film show me
the way to go home which conveys the
idea of staying home as his friends look
on with him
truman glances at a picture of his
wedding day with merle in the photo
album
he now realizes that merle crossed her
fingers showing that she did not marry
truman however truman goes to a travel
agency the following day to get a flight
to fiji only to discover that the travel
agent informs him that none are
available for a month
even before he could get on the bus to
chicago it broke down when truman gets
back from work he sees merle sitting in
her car with her gaze focused elsewhere
after his speech she gets in the car
with him and sits quietly as he orders
her too before forecasting the look of
every person that passed them like a
woman riding a red bike a man carrying
flowers and a vintage volkswagen beetle
with a dented fender
merle informs him that his actions are
concerning but he decides to put his
hypothesis to the test in the meantime
after merle orders them to head back to
the house he speeds away in his car with
her
a traffic gridlock arises at every
rotary
truman appears to be unhappy with the
arrangement and keeps making rounds
around the circle
while on his journey he reaches a
blocked road where all the automobiles
have vanished
his only remaining option is to go
across the island's single bridge rather
than that he closes his eyes and pushes
the pedal down forcing merle to get
behind the wheel
truman yells out in victory as merle
attempts to get him to return home but
he refuses
truman continues along despite the fire
in the road
the fire looks as though it has only
recently been put out but truman pays it
no mind the car was ultimately brought
to a stop right after a power plant that
seems like it has suffered a meltdown
as they came closer in their protective
gear truman saw men in white hazmat
suits apologizing for the inconvenience
however truman couldn't help being
anxious when one of them referred to him
by his first name given that they were
completely unaware of who he was
he then panicked and decided to run away
they got their hands on him and brought
him back to the island once they get to
their home merle attempts to cheer up
truman by giving him a new drink she
discovered
truman asks who she thinks she's talking
to because of the way she sells the item
as if it were a commercial
truman appears more desperate and merle
gets angrier accusing truman of acting
strangely but truman grows more anxious
as he believes that something is wrong
with both him and everything around him
merle armed herself with a vegetable
peeler and threatened truman asking him
to back off
she's desperate when he pulls it out of
her hands and places her in a choke hold
she cries out begging someone to rescue
her
truman releases her and questions her
about what's happening a heartbroken
merle jumps into marlon's arms because
it's not professional as marlon calmly
strolls in with a case of beer as if
he's simply there to hang out truman is
joined by marlon as they share a couple
of beers while sitting by the edge of
the road
marlon tells truman that if he was a
part of a major scheme or conspiracy he
would know about it and he wouldn't be a
part of it
even though kristoff tells him what to
say through an earpiece valadin swears
that he could never lie to truman
because he doesn't want to do anything
that could break their friendship
marlon gives truman a real explanation
for his visit in which he says why he
invited truman out tonight
a black figure appears from the mist and
they stand and stare at it
truman learns that the homeless guy he
met earlier is his father when marlon
mentions finding him to truman
while kristoff stands over them with his
camera truman looks up at him with tears
of joy and smiles
his father vowed to make up for all the
time that was lost then the program true
talk starts and there's a small screen
in the right corner of the tv that shows
truman eating breakfast
kristoff gives an interview where he
explains some of the series more obscure
happenings
truman was taught to fear water as his
father's murder intended to make him
unable to bear the thought of leaving
the island
because of his constant curiosity which
frequently brought him close to
discovering his capture this decision
was validated
to calm truman's mental distress and
hopefully convince him to stay on the
island truman's father was brought back
the threats to his security led to many
precautionary measures one of which
featured an arden truman admirer hiding
in a gift truman had received when he
was a child which caused rubio to gain
air time kristoff agrees to answer
caller's questions
he can tell that sylvia is talking as
she chides kristoff for seeming to be
alive when he is the one doing the
confining kristoff replies by claiming
that the world is a prison and that he
allowed truman to enjoy a peaceful
existence by banishing all violence and
misery from his life the next day truman
looks to be completely recovered as if
nothing had happened
when he arrives at work he has a short
chat with his neighbors before heading
inside to meet vivian
after rearranging things in his basement
truman prepares his bed and falls asleep
kristoff having watched the camera feed
thinks truman is doing something strange
even though truman has been asleep for
several hours
he wants the phone to ring while they're
at home
when truman fails to respond or to make
a movement kristoff sends marlon over
giving him a series of instructions
truman had an extra special present for
marlon that the basement of his home and
marlon wanted to know what it was at a
loss as to what to do or say kristoff
does something that has no precedent in
formula one he cuts the transmission the
island's inhabitants are startled when
they lose all contact with their chief
kristoff instructs everyone to look for
juliet
as he awakens the sun to aid his search
kristoff plays a god-like motion over
the set
kristoff suggests looking in the sea
when on land all searches have failed
his instincts turn out to be true as
cameras survey the sea and find truman
steering a single sandboat alone
despite truman's apparent change of
heart kristoff issues in order to grab
truman from outside
this command is part of the continuous
lay feed
none of them have experience with
sailing even though they've all acted in
movies kristoff uses his weather program
to make truman believe there is a storm
to compel him to return to the harbor
but truman doesn't buckle
he yells in anger even when his voice
cracks
frustrated kristoff uses his powers to
raise the wind and violent seas nearly
throwing truman overboard
kristoff pulls the blood on the weather
knowing that truman will never surrender
truman sails victoriously until his boat
is hit with a massive force
to gather his thoughts truman realizes
that the bow of the ship has embedded
itself into the sky
he has gotten to the dome's end
he debarks and checks out the wall
following it for a few feet until he
uncovers a little staircase that takes
him to an exit door
finally able to interact with truman
kristoff uses the intercom system to
speak directly to him as he grabs the
door handle in the story truman has been
monitored since birth and believes that
everything in his life has been made as
entertainment for the world
kristoff persuades truman to remain in
his world where he is safe from misery
and anguish and tries to implant the
belief that truman's phobia about
continuing to live is too much for him
to bear kristoff tells truman to say
something because it appears like he is
lost in thought everyone's eyes are on
us
truman glances upward and replies
see you later if i don't
kristoff is astonished when the stranger
respectfully lowers his head opens the
door and exits
at the finale of the truman show sylvia
gets up from her living room floor while
the rest of the world is cheering loudly
kristoff removes his helmet tears up and
then quits the interview thank you for
watching tune in for the next recap and
if you enjoyed consider liking and
subscribing or check out our other
videos have a good day